humans dream about leaving earth and
traveling through the galaxy
but we were born too early to be part of
it
or were we
the reality is we could begin our dream
by building a moon base today
we actually do have the technology and
current estimates from nasa and the
private sector say it could be done for
20 to 40 billion dollars spread out over
about a decade
the price is comparable to the
international space station or the
budget surplus of germany in 2017
not that big an investment really
the payoff would be immeasurable
the moon is a sandbox to develop new
technologies and exploit unlimited
resources it would start a new space
race and lay the foundation for us to
spread out into the solar system and
beyond
it would create a vast array of new
technologies to benefit us on earth and
we would all be part of it
so why aren't we doing it well sadly
it's hard to get governments interested
in long-term investments in the future
of humanity
let's imagine just doing it
if we start today how would we build a
moon base
[Music]
throughout history colonization happened
in phases
in the first phase of the age of
exploration of the new world for example
european monarchs funded expeditions to
chart and discover and to stake their
claims they planted a flag and set up a
camp but they didn't stay
in the second phase small missions set
up outposts and settlements were founded
which were still very dependent on their
home countries for supplies
some failed but others survived and
established a permanent presence only
then in the third phase did a true
colony form to which tradesmen and
labourers could emigrate creating new
wealth and opportunities for themselves
and their families sending extreme
wealth back to their countries of origin
when we colonize the moon we'll go
through the same three phases this time
without murdering millions of innocent
people in the process
the moon is not a welcoming place for
living things a moon day lasts 29 earth
days
with a difference of nearly 300 degrees
celsius between sunlight and shade
there's no atmosphere to shield us from
meteorites big and small or cosmic
radiation
worse still the lunar surface is covered
in a layer of nasty jagged dust
the moon is hard but we're good at doing
hard things
in the first phase of lunar colonization
our explorers proved it can be done that
a new world can be reached this phase
started 60 years ago with the apollo
missions
since then satellites like the american
lunar reconnaissance orbiter have mapped
the moon while rovers like the chinese
utu have studied the composition of the
lunar surface looking for water ice and
metals
phase one is more or less complete we
know what we need to know to enter phase
two in the second phase astronauts will
build the first moon base and this could
begin today
the first small moon base could be
completed in a decade
the first nation that establishes this
base will be akin to the first nations
building outposts in the new world 500
years ago
it's expensive to send rockets to the
moon so we will send as little as
possible the base will be light little
more than inflatable habitats for crews
of no more than 12 and will be deployed
somewhere with a natural shelter options
include caves like underground lava tube
tunnels or craters near the poles where
the days are six months long
these astronauts will not stay long the
habitat is likely to be abandoned
between missions as solar panels cannot
generate electricity during the lunar
night
but they'll do the groundwork to enable
humans to stay permanently
our first crew will consist of
scientists and engineers who will study
the composition of the moon and whose
experiments will explore ways of using
the available lunar material say
purifying lunar ice and turning it into
water for human use
and water is important for far more than
drinking
they can use it to experiment with
growing plants for food
hydrogen fuel cells will store power
through the long night extending
astronaut stays
and most importantly it can be split
into hydrogen and oxygen rocket fuel
by harvesting water from the moon and
putting it into orbit the moon base will
supply an orbital depot where scientific
missions to mars and the outer solar
system can refuel
compared to the earth it's much easier
and cheaper to get things off the moon
into orbit
colonizing mars may mean starting from
the moon
but this isn't a true colony not yet
the base will be abandoned if funding
stops
if we want our base to grow into the
third phase into a true colony it must
become self-sufficient
supporting itself via exports to earth
now private contractors arrive looking
to get rich off lunar resources and
support services
if it's cheaper to produce rocket fuel
in space what else can they get rich on
they could extract precious metals
abundant in impact craters and other raw
materials from the lunar regolith
one promising possibility is the mining
of helium-3 an isotope that could one
day be used in nuclear fusion reactors
something the chinese lunar exploration
program is currently looking into
future colonists may export helium-3
back to earth providing us with cheap
and clean fusion energy
asteroids could be pulled into the
moon's orbit and mined
with commercial exports to earth the
colony is fully in its third phase
self-sufficient and economically
productive
our base will begin using lunar material
in its construction projects if it's to
continue growing
fortunately lunasol has all the
necessary ingredients to make concrete
robotic mining rigs can sift the lunar
dust for organic molecules and could be
used to build huge structures way too
massive to be brought from earth while
advances in 3d printing will make it
possible to produce almost everything
else the crews need
it's hard to say when exactly the colony
becomes self-sustaining
growth is gradual experiments are
replaced by industry and the population
steadily reaches the hundreds
encompassing more than just scientists
engineers pilots and contractors
representing countries and corporations
will be present
two of these people will make a
breakthrough not scientific but social
they will have the first
extraterrestrial child
throughout history the birth of the
first child was celebrated as a moment
where the seed of a colony finally and
irreversibly took root
here it means that the moon is not just
a place for scientists and engineers to
work it's a place for people to live to
raise a family
once this transition happens the colony
grows rapidly building more habitats and
schools and farms and all the things
needed to support the growing population
as our colony grows all kinds of new
technologies will be invented to sustain
it
they might develop crops that
efficiently recycle carbon dioxide or
that grow with very little water
they might find ways to recycle and
reuse 100 of their waste technologies
that are extremely valuable for earth
they could even build the first space
elevator in the solar system
with a space elevator spacecraft
astronauts and raw materials could be
brought back and forth from lunar orbit
without needing to use rockets at all
the moon may become a hub for economic
activity on a scale that's hard to
imagine right now
it's hard to say who will own the colony
at this point
will the first person born on the moon
take the national identity of their
parents or will a new generation meld
together into a new lunar society
and when existing treaties that bar any
nation from owning the moon are
inevitably rewritten will the colonists
be given a say
will they declare independence from the
earth
however it happens the moon is a perfect
sandbox to learn how to colonize the
solar system the perfect project to
unify nations and the only way to
guarantee our survival as a species
should something tragic happen on earth
if we ever want to colonize the milky
way we'll have to start somewhere
so why not start there why not start now
[Music]
while unfortunately you can't jump on a
spacecraft and go to the moon right now
you can learn more interesting things
about space and our universe and we can
even help you with that
kurtz kazakh and brilliant are
collaborating on a six-part video series
about our favorite science and space
topics
courts has worked with brilliant for a
while now and we love what they're doing
in a nutshell brilliant teaches you
science and maths with a hands-on
approach by solving puzzles yourself you
learn to understand concepts instead of
just memorizing facts
if you'd like to think more like a
scientist go to brienne.org nutshell and
sign up for free the first 688 people to
use the link get their annual premium
membership at a 20 discount and also
support our collaboration with brilliant
[Music]
you